## Biobox Input Validator

Biobox authors should check the input data provided by the user is valid before
starting. This will prevent unexpected program behaviour or errors halfway
through a multi-step pipeline. Any errors should be reported back to the user
with a clear message so they can be understood and fixed.

The bioboxes project provides the command line tool `validate-input` to help
test the input YAML file given to a biobox. This tool with test the input YAML
and return a non-zero exit code and error message if the input data is not
correct. If identified, this error message should be returned to the user, and
then the biobox should exit. The command line interface for this tool is:

    validate-input --schema=schema.yml --input=input.yml

### Example install

The tool 'validate-input' can be installed in your Docker image by downloading
and unpacking. An example is to fetch the current version and decompress it
into the directory `/biobox-validator`.

    ENV BASE_URL https://s3-us-west-1.amazonaws.com/bioboxes-tools/validate-input
    ENV VERSION  validate-input-current.tar.xz
    RUN mkdir /biobox-validator
    RUN wget \
          --quiet \
          --output-document -\
          ${BASE_URL}/${VERSION} \
        | tar xJf - \
          --directory /biobox-validator \
          --strip-components=1

### Example usage

The tools should be used at the start of a script to ensure the data passed by
the user is correct. One way to do this is with a bash script that exits when a
non-zero exit code is generated.

    #!/bin/bash

    set -o errexit

    /biobox-validator/validate-input --schema=schema.yml --input=input.yml
